## SSH Key Generation for Github Account
- Used for authenticating the current user to perform actions on that perticular git account.

## Command to test authentiion using SSH key:   
For Github: `ssh -T git@github.com` for default key and for specific user, `ssh -T git@<your key name>` 
eg. 
```cmd
ubuntu@ip-172-31-16-52: $ ssh -T git@github.com
Hi dq-aem-manojkumar! You've successfully authenticated, but GitHub does not provide shell access.

ubuntu@ip-172-31-16-52: $ ssh -T git@github-hrms
Hi digiquadsolutions! You've successfully authenticated, but GitHub does not provide shell access.

Basically "github-hrms" is the SSH key we created for "digiquadsolutions" user.
```

⚠️ Important reality check  
GitHub authentication message shows which account owns the SSH key.  
If it still shows old user → you're still using old key.  
Each SSH key = tied to one GitHub account  

All the Keys are kept inside: `/home/ubuntu/.ssh` in file format.  
For multiuple key management, inside that `.ssh` folder, one `config` file is there. Inside it, we can define the users and their associated SSH key files.
```
# smart-queue repo
Host github-smartqueue
    HostName github.com
    User git
    IdentityFile ~/.ssh/queueapp_dev-nirbhai

# EmpTimeHub repo
Host github-emptimehub
    HostName github.com
    User git
    IdentityFile ~/.ssh/id_ed25519

# EmpTimeHub-FONTEND repo
Host github-emptimehub-ui
    HostName github.com
    User git
    IdentityFile ~/.ssh/id_ed25519

# DQ-Employee Time Hub repo (HRMS)
Host github-hrms
    HostName github.com
    User git
    IdentityFile ~/.ssh/hrms-production-git-ssh

⚠️ queueapp_dev-nirbhai, id_ed25519, hrms-production-git-ssh are the generated files inside which keys are there.
```

## Now the actual generation part
Our goal is to Allow this EC2 machine to access a private GitHub repo.

1. Generate SSH key on EC2:  
`ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "hrms-production-git-ssh"`  
⚠️ Here, it will ask you the file name to store. But here is the catch. If you give only name, it will create the files under `/home/ubuntu`. So you have to explicitely give the full path. `/home/ubuntu/.ssh/hrms-production-git-ssh`

Resulting files (IMPORTANT)  
/home/ubuntu/.ssh/hrms-production-git-ssh        ← PRIVATE KEY (DO NOT SHARE)  
/home/ubuntu/.ssh/hrms-production-git-ssh.pub    ← PUBLIC  

📍 Where keys live?  
Private key → stays on EC2 only  
Public key → copied to GitHub

2. Add public key to GitHub:  
`cat ~/.ssh/hrms-production-git-ssh.pub`

Copy output → paste into:   
    GitHub → Settings → SSH and GPG Keys → New SSH Key with Title: example hrms-production-github

3. Verify the Key is working or not
`ssh -T git@<your key name>`  
eg. `ssh -T github-hrms`

4. Clone the repository:
`git clone git@github-hrms:your-org/your-repo.git`  

eg. `git clone -b dev git@github-hrms:digiquadsolutions/DQ-HRMS-BE.git DQ-HRMS-BE-DEV`  

⚠️ If we have a default one user, we can use `git clone git@github.com:your-org/your-repo.git` but in case of multiple user accounts are there, no need to add them in colaborator to clone them. Using the specific user related key, we can access the repository.   
For that `git@<host-alias you mentioned in config file>` we have to use.  

Add these lines in that `config` file for specifying that you are using this key for authentication:  

⚠️ Make sure the config file you created `~/.ssh/config` only Not config.sh or config.txt
```
Host github-hrms
    HostName github.com
    User git
    IdentityFile ~/.ssh/hrms-production-git-ssh
```

👉 That `github-hrms` alias forces SSH to use your new key and `hrms-production-git-ssh` is the key we generated.

Refer the overflow which is given at the beginning of this article.
